docs/source/vec3.rst, before:

.. default-domain:: C

vec3
====

Header: cglm/vec3.h

 **Important:** *cglm* was used **glm_vec_** namespace for vec3 functions until
 **v0.5.0**, since **v0.5.0** cglm uses **glm_vec3_** namespace for vec3.

 Also `glm_vec3_flipsign` has been renamed to `glm_vec3_negate`

We mostly use vectors in graphics math, to make writing code faster
and easy to read, some *vec3* functions are aliased in global namespace.
For instance :c:func:`glm_dot` is alias of :c:func:`glm_vec3_dot`,
alias means inline wrapper here. There is no call verison of alias functions

There are also functions for rotating *vec3* vector. **_m4**, **_m3** prefixes
rotate *vec3* with matrix.

Table of contents (click to go):
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Macros:

1. glm_vec3_dup(v, dest)
#. GLM_VEC3_ONE_INIT
#. GLM_VEC3_ZERO_INIT
#. GLM_VEC3_ONE
#. GLM_VEC3_ZERO
#. GLM_YUP
#. GLM_ZUP
#. GLM_XUP

Functions:

1. :c:func:`glm_vec3`
#. :c:func:`glm_vec3_copy`
#. :c:func:`glm_vec3_zero`
#. :c:func:`glm_vec3_one`
#. :c:func:`glm_vec3_dot`
#. :c:func:`glm_vec3_cross`
#. :c:func:`glm_vec3_norm2`
#. :c:func:`glm_vec3_norm`
#. :c:func:`glm_vec3_add`
#. :c:func:`glm_vec3_adds`
#. :c:func:`glm_vec3_sub`
#. :c:func:`glm_vec3_subs`
#. :c:func:`glm_vec3_mul`
#. :c:func:`glm_vec3_scale`
#. :c:func:`glm_vec3_scale_as`
#. :c:func:`glm_vec3_div`
#. :c:func:`glm_vec3_divs`
#. :c:func:`glm_vec3_addadd`
#. :c:func:`glm_vec3_subadd`
#. :c:func:`glm_vec3_muladd`
#. :c:func:`glm_vec3_muladds`
#. :c:func:`glm_vec3_flipsign`
#. :c:func:`glm_vec3_flipsign_to`
#. :c:func:`glm_vec3_inv`
#. :c:func:`glm_vec3_inv_to`
#. :c:func:`glm_vec3_negate`
#. :c:func:`glm_vec3_negate_to`
#. :c:func:`glm_vec3_normalize`
#. :c:func:`glm_vec3_normalize_to`
#. :c:func:`glm_vec3_distance2`
#. :c:func:`glm_vec3_distance`
#. :c:func:`glm_vec3_angle`
#. :c:func:`glm_vec3_rotate`
#. :c:func:`glm_vec3_rotate_m4`
#. :c:func:`glm_vec3_rotate_m3`
#. :c:func:`glm_vec3_proj`
#. :c:func:`glm_vec3_center`
#. :c:func:`glm_vec3_maxv`
#. :c:func:`glm_vec3_minv`
#. :c:func:`glm_vec3_ortho`
#. :c:func:`glm_vec3_clamp`
#. :c:func:`glm_vec3_lerp`

Functions documentation
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

.. c:function:: void  glm_vec3(vec4 v4, vec3 dest)

    init vec3 using vec4

    Parameters:
      | *[in]*  **v4**    vector4
      | *[out]* **dest**  destination

.. c:function:: void  glm_vec3_copy(vec3 a, vec3 dest)

    copy all members of [a] to [dest]

    Parameters:
      | *[in]*  **a**     source
      | *[out]* **dest**  destination

.. c:function:: void  glm_vec3_zero(vec3 v)

    makes all members 0.0f (zero)

    Parameters:
      | *[in, out]*  **v**     vector

.. c:function:: void  glm_vec3_one(vec3 v)

    makes all members 1.0f (one)

    Parameters:
      | *[in, out]*  **v**     vector

.. c:function:: float  glm_vec3_dot(vec3 a, vec3 b)

    dot product of vec3

    Parameters:
      | *[in]*  **a**  vector1
      | *[in]*  **b**  vector2

    Returns:
      dot product

.. c:function:: void  glm_vec3_cross(vec3 a, vec3 b, vec3 d)

    cross product

    Parameters:
      | *[in]*  **a**  source 1
      | *[in]*  **b**  source 2
      | *[out]* **d**  destination

.. c:function:: float  glm_vec3_norm2(vec3 v)

    norm * norm (magnitude) of vector

    we can use this func instead of calling norm * norm, because it would call
    sqrtf fuction twice but with this func we can avoid func call, maybe this is
    not good name for this func

    Parameters:
      | *[in]*  **v**   vector

    Returns:
      square of norm / magnitude

.. c:function:: float  glm_vec3_norm(vec3 vec)

    norm (magnitude) of vec3

    Parameters:
      | *[in]*  **vec**   vector

.. c:function:: void  glm_vec3_add(vec3 a, vec3 b, vec3 dest)

    add a vector to b vector store result in dest

    Parameters:
      | *[in]*  **a**     vector1
      | *[in]*  **b**     vector2
      | *[out]* **dest**  destination vector

.. c:function:: void  glm_vec3_adds(vec3 a, float s, vec3 dest)

    add scalar to v vector store result in dest (d = v + vec(s))

    Parameters:
      | *[in]*  **v**     vector
      | *[in]*  **s**     scalar
      | *[out]* **dest**  destination vector

.. c:function:: void  glm_vec3_sub(vec3 v1, vec3 v2, vec3 dest)

    subtract b vector from a vector store result in dest (d = v1 - v2)

    Parameters:
      | *[in]*  **a**     vector1
      | *[in]*  **b**     vector2
      | *[out]* **dest**  destination vector

.. c:function:: void  glm_vec3_subs(vec3 v, float s, vec3 dest)

    subtract scalar from v vector store result in dest (d = v - vec(s))

    Parameters:
      | *[in]*  **v**     vector
      | *[in]*  **s**     scalar
      | *[out]* **dest**  destination vector

.. c:function:: void  glm_vec3_mul(vec3 a, vec3 b, vec3 d)

    multiply two vector (component-wise multiplication)

    Parameters:
      | *[in]*  **a**     vector
      | *[in]*  **b**     scalar
      | *[out]* **d**     result = (a[0] * b[0], a[1] * b[1], a[2] * b[2])

.. c:function:: void glm_vec3_scale(vec3 v, float s, vec3 dest)

     multiply/scale vec3 vector with scalar: result = v * s


    Parameters:
      | *[in]*  **v**     vector
      | *[in]*  **s**     scalar
      | *[out]* **dest**  destination vector

.. c:function:: void  glm_vec3_scale_as(vec3 v, float s, vec3 dest)

    make vec3 vector scale as specified: result = unit(v) * s

    Parameters:
      | *[in]*  **v**     vector
      | *[in]*  **s**     scalar
      | *[out]* **dest**  destination vector

.. c:function:: void  glm_vec3_div(vec3 a, vec3 b, vec3 dest)

    div vector with another component-wise division: d = a / b

    Parameters:
      | *[in]*  **a**     vector 1
      | *[in]*  **b**     vector 2
      | *[out]* **dest**  result = (a[0] / b[0], a[1] / b[1], a[2] / b[2])

.. c:function:: void  glm_vec3_divs(vec3 v, float s, vec3 dest)

    div vector with scalar: d = v / s

    Parameters:
      | *[in]*  **v**     vector
      | *[in]*  **s**     scalar
      | *[out]* **dest**  result = (a[0] / s, a[1] / s, a[2] / s])

.. c:function:: void  glm_vec3_addadd(vec3 a, vec3 b, vec3 dest)

    | add two vectors and add result to sum
    | it applies += operator so dest must be initialized

    Parameters:
      | *[in]*  **a**     vector 1
      | *[in]*  **b**     vector 2
      | *[out]* **dest**  dest += (a + b)

.. c:function:: void  glm_vec3_subadd(vec3 a, vec3 b, vec3 dest)

    | sub two vectors and add result to sum
    | it applies += operator so dest must be initialized

    Parameters:
      | *[in]*  **a**     vector 1
      | *[in]*  **b**     vector 2
      | *[out]* **dest**  dest += (a - b)

.. c:function:: void  glm_vec3_muladd(vec3 a, vec3 b, vec3 dest)

    | mul two vectors and add result to sum
    | it applies += operator so dest must be initialized

    Parameters:
      | *[in]*  **a**     vector 1
      | *[in]*  **b**     vector 2
      | *[out]* **dest**  dest += (a * b)

.. c:function:: void  glm_vec3_muladds(vec3 a, float s, vec3 dest)

    | mul vector with scalar and add result to sum
    | it applies += operator so dest must be initialized

    Parameters:
      | *[in]*  **a**     vector
      | *[in]*  **s**     scalar
      | *[out]* **dest**  dest += (a * b)

.. c:function:: void  glm_vec3_flipsign(vec3 v)

    **DEPRACATED!**

    use :c:func:`glm_vec3_negate`

    Parameters:
      | *[in, out]*  **v**    vector

.. c:function:: void  glm_vec3_flipsign_to(vec3 v, vec3 dest)

    **DEPRACATED!**

    use :c:func:`glm_vec3_negate_to`

    Parameters:
      | *[in]*  **v**       vector
      | *[out]* **dest**    negated vector

.. c:function:: void  glm_vec3_inv(vec3 v)

    **DEPRACATED!**

    use :c:func:`glm_vec3_negate`

    Parameters:
      | *[in, out]*  **v**    vector

.. c:function:: void  glm_vec3_inv_to(vec3 v, vec3 dest)

    **DEPRACATED!**

    use :c:func:`glm_vec3_negate_to`

    Parameters:
      | *[in]*  **v**     source
      | *[out]* **dest**  destination

.. c:function:: void  glm_vec3_negate(vec3 v)

    negate vector components

    Parameters:
      | *[in, out]*  **v**    vector

.. c:function:: void  glm_vec3_negate_to(vec3 v, vec3 dest)

    negate vector components and store result in dest

    Parameters:
      | *[in]*  **v**       vector
      | *[out]* **dest**    negated vector

.. c:function:: void  glm_vec3_normalize(vec3 v)

    normalize vec3 and store result in same vec

    Parameters:
      | *[in, out]*  **v**    vector

.. c:function:: void  glm_vec3_normalize_to(vec3 vec, vec3 dest)

     normalize vec3 to dest

    Parameters:
      | *[in]*   **vec**   source
      | *[out]*  **dest**  destination

.. c:function:: float  glm_vec3_angle(vec3 v1, vec3 v2)

    angle betwen two vector

    Parameters:
      | *[in]*  **v1**   vector1
      | *[in]*  **v2**   vector2

    Return:
      | angle as radians

.. c:function:: void  glm_vec3_rotate(vec3 v, float angle, vec3 axis)

     rotate vec3 around axis by angle using Rodrigues' rotation formula

    Parameters:
      | *[in, out]*  **v**      vector
      | *[in]*       **axis**   axis vector (will be normalized)
      | *[out]*      **angle**  angle (radians)

.. c:function:: void  glm_vec3_rotate_m4(mat4 m, vec3 v, vec3 dest)

    apply rotation matrix to vector

    Parameters:
      | *[in]*  **m**     affine matrix or rot matrix
      | *[in]*  **v**     vector
      | *[out]* **dest**  rotated vector

.. c:function:: void  glm_vec3_rotate_m3(mat3 m, vec3 v, vec3 dest)

    apply rotation matrix to vector

    Parameters:
      | *[in]*  **m**     affine matrix or rot matrix
      | *[in]*  **v**     vector
      | *[out]* **dest**  rotated vector

.. c:function:: void  glm_vec3_proj(vec3 a, vec3 b, vec3 dest)

    project a vector onto b vector

    Parameters:
      | *[in]*  **a**     vector1
      | *[in]*  **b**     vector2
      | *[out]* **dest**  projected vector

.. c:function:: void  glm_vec3_center(vec3 v1, vec3 v2, vec3 dest)

    find center point of two vector

    Parameters:
      | *[in]*  **v1**    vector1
      | *[in]*  **v2**    vector2
      | *[out]* **dest**  center point

.. c:function:: float  glm_vec3_distance2(vec3 v1, vec3 v2)

    squared distance between two vectors

    Parameters:
      | *[in]*  **mat**   vector1
      | *[in]*  **row1**  vector2

    Returns:
      | squared distance (distance * distance)

.. c:function:: float  glm_vec3_distance(vec3 v1, vec3 v2)

    distance between two vectors

    Parameters:
      | *[in]*  **mat**   vector1
      | *[in]*  **row1**  vector2

    Returns:
      | distance

.. c:function:: void  glm_vec3_maxv(vec3 v1, vec3 v2, vec3 dest)

    max values of vectors

    Parameters:
      | *[in]*  **v1**    vector1
      | *[in]*  **v2**    vector2
      | *[out]* **dest**  destination

.. c:function:: void  glm_vec3_minv(vec3 v1, vec3 v2, vec3 dest)

    min values of vectors

    Parameters:
      | *[in]*  **v1**    vector1
      | *[in]*  **v2**    vector2
      | *[out]* **dest**  destination

.. c:function:: void  glm_vec3_ortho(vec3 v, vec3 dest)

    possible orthogonal/perpendicular vector

    Parameters:
      | *[in]*  **mat**   vector
      | *[out]* **dest**  orthogonal/perpendicular vector

.. c:function:: void  glm_vec3_clamp(vec3 v, float minVal, float maxVal)

    constrain a value to lie between two further values

    Parameters:
      | *[in, out]*  **v**       vector
      | *[in]*       **minVal**  minimum value
      | *[in]*       **maxVal**  maximum value

.. c:function:: void  glm_vec3_lerp(vec3 from, vec3 to, float t, vec3 dest)

    linear interpolation between two vector

    | formula:  from + s * (to - from)

    Parameters:
      | *[in]*  **from**   from value
      | *[in]*  **to**     to value
      | *[in]*  **t**      interpolant (amount) clamped between 0 and 1
      | *[out]* **dest**   destination

Commit message:

vec: `minnadd` and `maxadd` helpers

docs/source/vec3.rst, after:

.. default-domain:: C

vec3
====

Header: cglm/vec3.h

 **Important:** *cglm* was used **glm_vec_** namespace for vec3 functions until
 **v0.5.0**, since **v0.5.0** cglm uses **glm_vec3_** namespace for vec3.

 Also `glm_vec3_flipsign` has been renamed to `glm_vec3_negate`

We mostly use vectors in graphics math, to make writing code faster
and easy to read, some *vec3* functions are aliased in global namespace.
For instance :c:func:`glm_dot` is alias of :c:func:`glm_vec3_dot`,
alias means inline wrapper here. There is no call verison of alias functions

There are also functions for rotating *vec3* vector. **_m4**, **_m3** prefixes
rotate *vec3* with matrix.

Table of contents (click to go):
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Macros:

1. glm_vec3_dup(v, dest)
#. GLM_VEC3_ONE_INIT
#. GLM_VEC3_ZERO_INIT
#. GLM_VEC3_ONE
#. GLM_VEC3_ZERO
#. GLM_YUP
#. GLM_ZUP
#. GLM_XUP

Functions:

1. :c:func:`glm_vec3`
#. :c:func:`glm_vec3_copy`
#. :c:func:`glm_vec3_zero`
#. :c:func:`glm_vec3_one`
#. :c:func:`glm_vec3_dot`
#. :c:func:`glm_vec3_cross`
#. :c:func:`glm_vec3_norm2`
#. :c:func:`glm_vec3_norm`
#. :c:func:`glm_vec3_add`
#. :c:func:`glm_vec3_adds`
#. :c:func:`glm_vec3_sub`
#. :c:func:`glm_vec3_subs`
#. :c:func:`glm_vec3_mul`
#. :c:func:`glm_vec3_scale`
#. :c:func:`glm_vec3_scale_as`
#. :c:func:`glm_vec3_div`
#. :c:func:`glm_vec3_divs`
#. :c:func:`glm_vec3_addadd`
#. :c:func:`glm_vec3_subadd`
#. :c:func:`glm_vec3_muladd`
#. :c:func:`glm_vec3_muladds`
#. :c:func:`glm_vec3_maxadd`
#. :c:func:`glm_vec3_minadd`
#. :c:func:`glm_vec3_flipsign`
#. :c:func:`glm_vec3_flipsign_to`
#. :c:func:`glm_vec3_inv`
#. :c:func:`glm_vec3_inv_to`
#. :c:func:`glm_vec3_negate`
#. :c:func:`glm_vec3_negate_to`
#. :c:func:`glm_vec3_normalize`
#. :c:func:`glm_vec3_normalize_to`
#. :c:func:`glm_vec3_distance2`
#. :c:func:`glm_vec3_distance`
#. :c:func:`glm_vec3_angle`
#. :c:func:`glm_vec3_rotate`
#. :c:func:`glm_vec3_rotate_m4`
#. :c:func:`glm_vec3_rotate_m3`
#. :c:func:`glm_vec3_proj`
#. :c:func:`glm_vec3_center`
#. :c:func:`glm_vec3_maxv`
#. :c:func:`glm_vec3_minv`
#. :c:func:`glm_vec3_ortho`
#. :c:func:`glm_vec3_clamp`
#. :c:func:`glm_vec3_lerp`

Functions documentation
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

.. c:function:: void  glm_vec3(vec4 v4, vec3 dest)

    init vec3 using vec4

    Parameters:
      | *[in]*  **v4**    vector4
      | *[out]* **dest**  destination

.. c:function:: void  glm_vec3_copy(vec3 a, vec3 dest)

    copy all members of [a] to [dest]

    Parameters:
      | *[in]*  **a**     source
      | *[out]* **dest**  destination

.. c:function:: void  glm_vec3_zero(vec3 v)

    makes all members 0.0f (zero)

    Parameters:
      | *[in, out]*  **v**     vector

.. c:function:: void  glm_vec3_one(vec3 v)

    makes all members 1.0f (one)

    Parameters:
      | *[in, out]*  **v**     vector

.. c:function:: float  glm_vec3_dot(vec3 a, vec3 b)

    dot product of vec3

    Parameters:
      | *[in]*  **a**  vector1
      | *[in]*  **b**  vector2

    Returns:
      dot product

.. c:function:: void  glm_vec3_cross(vec3 a, vec3 b, vec3 d)

    cross product

    Parameters:
      | *[in]*  **a**  source 1
      | *[in]*  **b**  source 2
      | *[out]* **d**  destination

.. c:function:: float  glm_vec3_norm2(vec3 v)

    norm * norm (magnitude) of vector

    we can use this func instead of calling norm * norm, because it would call
    sqrtf fuction twice but with this func we can avoid func call, maybe this is
    not good name for this func

    Parameters:
      | *[in]*  **v**   vector

    Returns:
      square of norm / magnitude

.. c:function:: float  glm_vec3_norm(vec3 vec)

    norm (magnitude) of vec3

    Parameters:
      | *[in]*  **vec**   vector

.. c:function:: void  glm_vec3_add(vec3 a, vec3 b, vec3 dest)

    add a vector to b vector store result in dest

    Parameters:
      | *[in]*  **a**     vector1
      | *[in]*  **b**     vector2
      | *[out]* **dest**  destination vector

.. c:function:: void  glm_vec3_adds(vec3 a, float s, vec3 dest)

    add scalar to v vector store result in dest (d = v + vec(s))

    Parameters:
      | *[in]*  **v**     vector
      | *[in]*  **s**     scalar
      | *[out]* **dest**  destination vector

.. c:function:: void  glm_vec3_sub(vec3 v1, vec3 v2, vec3 dest)

    subtract b vector from a vector store result in dest (d = v1 - v2)

    Parameters:
      | *[in]*  **a**     vector1
      | *[in]*  **b**     vector2
      | *[out]* **dest**  destination vector

.. c:function:: void  glm_vec3_subs(vec3 v, float s, vec3 dest)

    subtract scalar from v vector store result in dest (d = v - vec(s))

    Parameters:
      | *[in]*  **v**     vector
      | *[in]*  **s**     scalar
      | *[out]* **dest**  destination vector

.. c:function:: void  glm_vec3_mul(vec3 a, vec3 b, vec3 d)

    multiply two vector (component-wise multiplication)

    Parameters:
      | *[in]*  **a**     vector
      | *[in]*  **b**     scalar
      | *[out]* **d**     result = (a[0] * b[0], a[1] * b[1], a[2] * b[2])

.. c:function:: void glm_vec3_scale(vec3 v, float s, vec3 dest)

     multiply/scale vec3 vector with scalar: result = v * s


    Parameters:
      | *[in]*  **v**     vector
      | *[in]*  **s**     scalar
      | *[out]* **dest**  destination vector

.. c:function:: void  glm_vec3_scale_as(vec3 v, float s, vec3 dest)

    make vec3 vector scale as specified: result = unit(v) * s

    Parameters:
      | *[in]*  **v**     vector
      | *[in]*  **s**     scalar
      | *[out]* **dest**  destination vector

.. c:function:: void  glm_vec3_div(vec3 a, vec3 b, vec3 dest)

    div vector with another component-wise division: d = a / b

    Parameters:
      | *[in]*  **a**     vector 1
      | *[in]*  **b**     vector 2
      | *[out]* **dest**  result = (a[0] / b[0], a[1] / b[1], a[2] / b[2])

.. c:function:: void  glm_vec3_divs(vec3 v, float s, vec3 dest)

    div vector with scalar: d = v / s

    Parameters:
      | *[in]*  **v**     vector
      | *[in]*  **s**     scalar
      | *[out]* **dest**  result = (a[0] / s, a[1] / s, a[2] / s])

.. c:function:: void  glm_vec3_addadd(vec3 a, vec3 b, vec3 dest)

    | add two vectors and add result to sum
    | it applies += operator so dest must be initialized

    Parameters:
      | *[in]*  **a**     vector 1
      | *[in]*  **b**     vector 2
      | *[out]* **dest**  dest += (a + b)

.. c:function:: void  glm_vec3_subadd(vec3 a, vec3 b, vec3 dest)

    | sub two vectors and add result to sum
    | it applies += operator so dest must be initialized

    Parameters:
      | *[in]*  **a**     vector 1
      | *[in]*  **b**     vector 2
      | *[out]* **dest**  dest += (a - b)

.. c:function:: void  glm_vec3_muladd(vec3 a, vec3 b, vec3 dest)

    | mul two vectors and add result to sum
    | it applies += operator so dest must be initialized

    Parameters:
      | *[in]*  **a**     vector 1
      | *[in]*  **b**     vector 2
      | *[out]* **dest**  dest += (a * b)

.. c:function:: void  glm_vec3_muladds(vec3 a, float s, vec3 dest)

    | mul vector with scalar and add result to sum
    | it applies += operator so dest must be initialized

    Parameters:
      | *[in]*  **a**     vector
      | *[in]*  **s**     scalar
      | *[out]* **dest**  dest += (a * b)

.. c:function:: void  glm_vec3_maxadd(vec3 a, vec3 b, vec3 dest)

    | add max of two vector to result/dest
    | it applies += operator so dest must be initialized

    Parameters:
      | *[in]*  **a**     vector 1
      | *[in]*  **b**     vector 2
      | *[out]* **dest**  dest += (a * b)

.. c:function:: void  glm_vec3_minadd(vec3 a, vec3 b, vec3 dest)

    | add min of two vector to result/dest
    | it applies += operator so dest must be initialized

    Parameters:
      | *[in]*  **a**     vector 1
      | *[in]*  **b**     vector 2
      | *[out]* **dest**  dest += (a * b)

.. c:function:: void  glm_vec3_flipsign(vec3 v)

    **DEPRACATED!**

    use :c:func:`glm_vec3_negate`

    Parameters:
      | *[in, out]*  **v**    vector

.. c:function:: void  glm_vec3_flipsign_to(vec3 v, vec3 dest)

    **DEPRACATED!**

    use :c:func:`glm_vec3_negate_to`

    Parameters:
      | *[in]*  **v**       vector
      | *[out]* **dest**    negated vector

.. c:function:: void  glm_vec3_inv(vec3 v)

    **DEPRACATED!**

    use :c:func:`glm_vec3_negate`

    Parameters:
      | *[in, out]*  **v**    vector

.. c:function:: void  glm_vec3_inv_to(vec3 v, vec3 dest)

    **DEPRACATED!**

    use :c:func:`glm_vec3_negate_to`

    Parameters:
      | *[in]*  **v**     source
      | *[out]* **dest**  destination

.. c:function:: void  glm_vec3_negate(vec3 v)

    negate vector components

    Parameters:
      | *[in, out]*  **v**    vector

.. c:function:: void  glm_vec3_negate_to(vec3 v, vec3 dest)

    negate vector components and store result in dest

    Parameters:
      | *[in]*  **v**       vector
      | *[out]* **dest**    negated vector

.. c:function:: void  glm_vec3_normalize(vec3 v)

    normalize vec3 and store result in same vec

    Parameters:
      | *[in, out]*  **v**    vector

.. c:function:: void  glm_vec3_normalize_to(vec3 vec, vec3 dest)

     normalize vec3 to dest

    Parameters:
      | *[in]*   **vec**   source
      | *[out]*  **dest**  destination

.. c:function:: float  glm_vec3_angle(vec3 v1, vec3 v2)

    angle betwen two vector

    Parameters:
      | *[in]*  **v1**   vector1
      | *[in]*  **v2**   vector2

    Return:
      | angle as radians

.. c:function:: void  glm_vec3_rotate(vec3 v, float angle, vec3 axis)

     rotate vec3 around axis by angle using Rodrigues' rotation formula

    Parameters:
      | *[in, out]*  **v**      vector
      | *[in]*       **axis**   axis vector (will be normalized)
      | *[out]*      **angle**  angle (radians)

.. c:function:: void  glm_vec3_rotate_m4(mat4 m, vec3 v, vec3 dest)

    apply rotation matrix to vector

    Parameters:
      | *[in]*  **m**     affine matrix or rot matrix
      | *[in]*  **v**     vector
      | *[out]* **dest**  rotated vector

.. c:function:: void  glm_vec3_rotate_m3(mat3 m, vec3 v, vec3 dest)

    apply rotation matrix to vector

    Parameters:
      | *[in]*  **m**     affine matrix or rot matrix
      | *[in]*  **v**     vector
      | *[out]* **dest**  rotated vector

.. c:function:: void  glm_vec3_proj(vec3 a, vec3 b, vec3 dest)

    project a vector onto b vector

    Parameters:
      | *[in]*  **a**     vector1
      | *[in]*  **b**     vector2
      | *[out]* **dest**  projected vector

.. c:function:: void  glm_vec3_center(vec3 v1, vec3 v2, vec3 dest)

    find center point of two vector

    Parameters:
      | *[in]*  **v1**    vector1
      | *[in]*  **v2**    vector2
      | *[out]* **dest**  center point

.. c:function:: float  glm_vec3_distance2(vec3 v1, vec3 v2)

    squared distance between two vectors

    Parameters:
      | *[in]*  **mat**   vector1
      | *[in]*  **row1**  vector2

    Returns:
      | squared distance (distance * distance)

.. c:function:: float  glm_vec3_distance(vec3 v1, vec3 v2)

    distance between two vectors

    Parameters:
      | *[in]*  **mat**   vector1
      | *[in]*  **row1**  vector2

    Returns:
      | distance

.. c:function:: void  glm_vec3_maxv(vec3 v1, vec3 v2, vec3 dest)

    max values of vectors

    Parameters:
      | *[in]*  **v1**    vector1
      | *[in]*  **v2**    vector2
      | *[out]* **dest**  destination

.. c:function:: void  glm_vec3_minv(vec3 v1, vec3 v2, vec3 dest)

    min values of vectors

    Parameters:
      | *[in]*  **v1**    vector1
      | *[in]*  **v2**    vector2
      | *[out]* **dest**  destination

.. c:function:: void  glm_vec3_ortho(vec3 v, vec3 dest)

    possible orthogonal/perpendicular vector

    Parameters:
      | *[in]*  **mat**   vector
      | *[out]* **dest**  orthogonal/perpendicular vector

.. c:function:: void  glm_vec3_clamp(vec3 v, float minVal, float maxVal)

    constrain a value to lie between two further values

    Parameters:
      | *[in, out]*  **v**       vector
      | *[in]*       **minVal**  minimum value
      | *[in]*       **maxVal**  maximum value

.. c:function:: void  glm_vec3_lerp(vec3 from, vec3 to, float t, vec3 dest)

    linear interpolation between two vector

    | formula:  from + s * (to - from)

    Parameters:
      | *[in]*  **from**   from value
      | *[in]*  **to**     to value
      | *[in]*  **t**      interpolant (amount) clamped between 0 and 1
      | *[out]* **dest**   destination
